Codebook
=========
This codebook explains the codes used in the `second` dataset.

### Original dataset

The original dataset "Human Activity Recognition Using Smartphones Datasets"<sup>1</sup> contains following files that were employed to generate `second`:
 1. X_train.txt and X_test.txt, which conatin 561 variables (features) estimated from the signals captured by smartphones on the waists of volunteers performing 6 specific activities. 
 2. y_train.txt and y_test.txt, which contain the information of which activity was measured for each measurement in X_train.txt and X_text.txt, respectively.
 3. subject_train.txt and subject_test.txt, which record whose (by 1-30 volunteer id number) activity was measured for each measurement in X_train.txt and X_test.txt.
 4. features.txt, which contains the names of all 561 variable.
 5. activity_lables.txt, which contains the names of the 6 specific activities.
 
 
### How was `second` generated from the original dataset?

 1. The training data in subject_train.txt, y_train.txt, and X_train.txt were assembled into one table. Same procesure was performed to assemble test data into one table. 
 2. The table for training and test data were labeled with proper variable names: `subject_id` for data from subject_train/test.txt files, `activity` for data from y_train/test.txt files, and names listed in features.txt for the rest of the variables.
 3. The training table and the test table were merged into one table.
 4. From the table obtained in 3., only variables `subject_id`, `activity`, and those with names containing either "mean" or "std" were extracted, thus creating a new table with 81 variables.
 3. The factor levels of `activity`, which were denoted by integer numbers, were replaced with character names from activity_labels.txt.
 5. The average value of each activity and each subject was calculated, and the result was our final goal, the `second` dataset. Thus, the dimension of `second` is 180 * 81, where 180 = 6 (number of activies) * 30 (number of subjects), and 81 is the number of variables. 
 
 
### Differences between the original dataset and `second`

 1. Number of variables (561 vs. 81). `second` only extracts part of the variables of the original dataset.
 2. The nature of the data. Although 79 variable names are the same, the ones in `second` actually indicate the **averge values** of each activity and each subject, instead of the values of the original measurements.
 

### The meaning of the variable names 

The original dataset were generated by capturing 3-axial linear acceleration and 3-axial angular velocity signals with smartphones, followed by processing for estimation of each variables. The `second` dataset were the average of these estimations by activity and by volunteer. Here are some explanation on the variable names, however, for more detailed information, you may refer to the features_info.txt file in the original dataset.

 
 * Suffix t:       time domain signals
 * BodyAcc:        body acceleration signals
 * GravityAcc:     gravity acceleration signals
 * BodyGyro:       body gyroscope signals    
 * mean():         as the name imply
 * std():          standard deviation
 * -X, -Y, -Z:     which of the 3 axials the signals belong to
 * Jerk:           Jerk signals obtained from body linear acceleration and angular velocity derived in time
 * Mag:            magnitude of these three-dimensional signals calculated using the Euclidean norm
 * Suffix f:       frequency domain signals
 * meanFreq():     mean frequency     

 
#### Complete list of variable names:
 1 subject_id                     
 2 activity                       
 3 tBodyAcc-mean()-X              
 4 tBodyAcc-mean()-Y              
 5 tBodyAcc-mean()-Z              
 6 tBodyAcc-std()-X               
 7 tBodyAcc-std()-Y               
 8 tBodyAcc-std()-Z               
 9 tGravityAcc-mean()-X           
10 tGravityAcc-mean()-Y           
11 tGravityAcc-mean()-Z           
12 tGravityAcc-std()-X            
13 tGravityAcc-std()-Y            
14 tGravityAcc-std()-Z            
15 tBodyAccJerk-mean()-X          
16 tBodyAccJerk-mean()-Y          
17 tBodyAccJerk-mean()-Z          
18 tBodyAccJerk-std()-X           
19 tBodyAccJerk-std()-Y           
20 tBodyAccJerk-std()-Z           
21 tBodyGyro-mean()-X             
22 tBodyGyro-mean()-Y             
23 tBodyGyro-mean()-Z             
24 tBodyGyro-std()-X              
25 tBodyGyro-std()-Y              
26 tBodyGyro-std()-Z              
27 tBodyGyroJerk-mean()-X         
28 tBodyGyroJerk-mean()-Y         
29 tBodyGyroJerk-mean()-Z         
30 tBodyGyroJerk-std()-X          
31 tBodyGyroJerk-std()-Y          
32 tBodyGyroJerk-std()-Z          
33 tBodyAccMag-mean()             
34 tBodyAccMag-std()              
35 tGravityAccMag-mean()          
36 tGravityAccMag-std()           
37 tBodyAccJerkMag-mean()         
38 tBodyAccJerkMag-std()          
39 tBodyGyroMag-mean()            
40 tBodyGyroMag-std()             
41 tBodyGyroJerkMag-mean()        
42 tBodyGyroJerkMag-std()         
43 fBodyAcc-mean()-X              
44 fBodyAcc-mean()-Y              
45 fBodyAcc-mean()-Z              
46 fBodyAcc-std()-X               
47 fBodyAcc-std()-Y               
48 fBodyAcc-std()-Z               
49 fBodyAcc-meanFreq()-X          
50 fBodyAcc-meanFreq()-Y          
51 fBodyAcc-meanFreq()-Z          
52 fBodyAccJerk-mean()-X          
53 fBodyAccJerk-mean()-Y          
54 fBodyAccJerk-mean()-Z          
55 fBodyAccJerk-std()-X           
56 fBodyAccJerk-std()-Y           
57 fBodyAccJerk-std()-Z           
58 fBodyAccJerk-meanFreq()-X      
59 fBodyAccJerk-meanFreq()-Y      
60 fBodyAccJerk-meanFreq()-Z      
61 fBodyGyro-mean()-X             
62 fBodyGyro-mean()-Y             
63 fBodyGyro-mean()-Z             
64 fBodyGyro-std()-X              
65 fBodyGyro-std()-Y              
66 fBodyGyro-std()-Z              
67 fBodyGyro-meanFreq()-X         
68 fBodyGyro-meanFreq()-Y         
69 fBodyGyro-meanFreq()-Z         
70 fBodyAccMag-mean()             
71 fBodyAccMag-std()              
72 fBodyAccMag-meanFreq()         
73 fBodyBodyAccJerkMag-mean()     
74 fBodyBodyAccJerkMag-std()      
75 fBodyBodyAccJerkMag-meanFreq() 
76 fBodyBodyGyroMag-mean()        
77 fBodyBodyGyroMag-std()         
78 fBodyBodyGyroMag-meanFreq()    
79 fBodyBodyGyroJerkMag-mean()    
80 fBodyBodyGyroJerkMag-std()     
81 fBodyBodyGyroJerkMag-meanFreq()

### Reference

 1. Davide Anguita, Alessandro Ghio, Luca Oneto, Xavier Parra and Jorge L. Reyes-Ortiz. Human Activity Recognition on Smartphones using a Multiclass Hardware-Friendly Support Vector Machine. International Workshop of Ambient Assisted Living (IWAAL 2012). Vitoria-Gasteiz, Spain. Dec 2012